hereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California
January 22, 2026
Auditor's Reports 59
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Years Ended (In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Dec 27, 2025 Dec 28, 2024 Dec 30, 2023
Net revenue $ 52,853 $ 53,101 $ 54,228
Cost of sales 34,478 35,756 32,517
Gross profit
18,375 17,345 21,711
Research and development 13,774 16,546 16,046
Marketing, general, and administrative
4,624 5,507 5,634
Restructuring and other charges 2,191 6,970 ( 62 )
Operating expenses 20,589 29,023 21,618
Operating income (loss) ( 2,214 ) ( 11,678 ) 93
Gains (losses) on equity investments, net 514 242 40
Interest and other, net 3,257 226 629
Income (loss) before taxes 1,557 ( 11,210 ) 762
Provision for (benefit from) taxes 1,531 8,023 ( 913 )
Net income (loss) 26 ( 19,233 ) 1,675
Less: net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 293 ( 477 ) ( 14 )
Net income (loss) attributable to Intel $ ( 267 ) $ ( 18,756 ) $ 1,689
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—basic $ ( 0.06 ) $ ( 4.38 ) $ 0.40
Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Intel—diluted
$ ( 0.06 ) $ ( 4.38 ) $ 0.40
Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding:
Basic 4,530 4,280 4,190
Diluted 4,530 4,280 4,212
See accompanying notes.
Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Operations
60
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 27, 2025 Dec 28, 2024 Dec 30, 2023
Net income (loss) $ 26 $ ( 19,233 ) $ 1,675
Changes in other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives 743 ( 555 ) 272
Actuarial valuation and other pension benefits (expenses), net 78 60 66
Translation adjustments and other 3 ( 1 ) 9
Other comprehensive income (loss) 824 ( 496 ) 347
Total comprehensive income (loss) 850 ( 19,729 ) 2,022
Less: comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 293 ( 477 ) ( 14 )
Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Intel $ 557 $ ( 19,252 ) $ 2,036
See accompanying notes.
Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
61
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In Millions, Except Par Value) Dec 27, 2025 Dec 28, 2024
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 14,265 $ 8,249
Short-term investments 23,151 13,813
Accounts receivable, net 3,839 3,478
Inventories 11,618 12,198
Other current assets 10,815 9,586
Total current assets 63,688 47,324
Property, plant and equipment, net
105,414 107,919
Equity investments 8,512 5,383
Goodwill 23,912 24,693
Identified intangible assets, net 2,772 3,691
Other long-term assets 7,131 7,475
Total assets $ 211,429 $ 196,485
Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 9,882 $ 12,556
Accrued compensation and benefits 3,990 3,343
Short-term debt 2,499 3,729
Income taxes payable 604 1,756
Other accrued liabilities 14,600 14,282
Total current liabilities 31,575 35,666
Debt 44,086 46,282
Other long-term liabilities 9,408 9,505
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 19)
Stockholders' equity:
Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 50 shares authorized; none issued — —
Common stock, $0.001 par value, 10,000 shares authorized; 4,994 shares issued and outstanding (4,330 issued and outstanding in 2024) and capital in excess of par value 65,185 50,949
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 113 ( 711 )
Retained earnings 48,983 49,032
Total Intel stockholders' equity 114,281 99,270
Non-controlling interests 12,079 5,762
Total stockholders' equity 126,360 105,032
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 211,429 $ 196,485
See accompanying notes.
Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets 62
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Years Ended (In Millions) Dec 27, 2025 Dec 28, 2024 Dec 30, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period $ 8,249 $ 7,079 $ 11,144
Cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities:
Net income (loss) 26 ( 19,233 ) 1,675
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 10,757 9,951 7,847
Share-based compensation 2,434 3,410 3,229
Restructuring and other charges 476 3,491 ( 424 )
Amortization of intangibles 949 1,428 1,755
(Gains) losses on equity investments, net ( 514 ) ( 246 ) ( 42 )
Mark-to-market (gains) losses on Escrowed Shares 1,796 — —
(Gains) losses on divestitures ( 5,323 ) — —
Deferred taxes 328 6,132 ( 2,033 )
Impairments and net (gain) loss on retirement of property, plant and equipment 515 2,252 33
Changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable ( 449 ) ( 75 ) 731
Inventories ( 138 ) ( 1,105 ) 2,097
Accounts payable 297 634 ( 801 )
Accrued compensation and benefits 788 ( 218 ) ( 614 )
Income taxes ( 995 ) ( 356 ) ( 1,498 )
Other assets and liabilities ( 1,250 ) 2,223 ( 484 )
Total adjustments 9,671 27,521 9,796
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities 9,697 8,288 11,471
Cash flows provided by (used for) investing activities:
Additions to property, plant and equipment ( 14,646 ) ( 23,944 ) ( 25,750 )
Proceeds from capital-related government incentives 1,577 1,936 1,011
Purchases of short-term investments ( 24,319 ) ( 37,940 ) ( 44,414 )
Maturities and sales of short-term investments 15,387 41,463 44,077
Sales of equity investments 671 1,047 472
Proceeds from divestitures, net 6,157 — —
Other investing 352 ( 818 ) 563
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities ( 14,821 ) ( 18,256 ) ( 24,041 )
Cash flows provided by (used for) financing activities:
Issuance of commercial paper, net of issuance costs 3,493 7,349 —
Repayment of commercial paper ( 3,493 ) ( 7,349 ) ( 3,944 )
Partner contributions 5,108 12,714 1,511
Net proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares 921 — 2,959
Additions to property, plant and equipment ( 3,026 ) ( 1,178 ) —
Issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs — 2,975 11,391
Repayment of debt ( 3,750 ) ( 2,288 ) ( 423 )
Proceeds from sales of common stock through employee equity incentive plans 771 987 1,042
Net proceeds attributed to common stock and warrants issued, and Escrowed Shares 12,706 — —
Restricted stock unit withholdings ( 423 ) ( 631 ) ( 534 )
Payment of dividends to stockholders — ( 1,599 ) ( 3,088 )
Other financing ( 720 ) 158 ( 409 )
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 11,587 11,138 8,505
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6,463 1,170 ( 4,065 )
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, end of period $ 14,712 $ 8,249 $ 7,079
Non-cash supplemental disclosures:
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment $ 4,952 $ 8,125 $ 4,804
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest, net of capitalized interest $ 1,106 $ 987 $ 613
See accompanying notes.
Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 63
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
Common Stock and Capital
in Excess of Par Value Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) Retained
Earnings
Non-Controlling Interests Total
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Number of
Shares Amount
Balance as of December 31, 2022 4,137 $ 31,580 $ ( 562 ) $ 70,405 $ 1,863 $ 103,286
Net income (loss) — — — 1,689 ( 14 ) 1,675
Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 347 — — 347
Proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares
and partner contributions — 1,620 — — 2,385 4,005
Employee equity incentive plans and other 107 1,044 — — — 1,044
Share-based compensation — 3,088 — — 141 3,229
Restricted stock unit withholdings ( 16 ) ( 683 ) — 150 — ( 533 )
Cash dividends declared ($ 0.74 per share of common stock)
— — — ( 3,088 ) — ( 3,088 )
Balance as of December 30, 2023 4,228 $ 36,649 $ ( 215 ) $ 69,156 $ 4,375 $ 109,965
Net income (loss) — — — ( 18,756 ) ( 477 ) ( 19,233 )
Other comprehensive income (loss) — — ( 496 ) — — ( 496 )
Net proceeds from partner contributions — 11,012 — — 1,702 12,714
Partner distributions — — — — ( 43 ) ( 43 )
Employee equity incentive plans and other 123 988 — — — 988
Share-based compensation — 3,162 — — 205 3,367
Restricted stock unit withholdings ( 21 ) ( 862 ) — 231 — ( 631 )
Cash dividends declared ($ 0.38 per share of common stock)
— — — ( 1,599 ) — ( 1,599 )
Balance as of December 28, 2024 4,330 $ 50,949 $ ( 711 ) $ 49,032 $ 5,762 $ 105,032
Opening balance adjustment 1
— — — 49 — 49
Net income (loss) — — — ( 267 ) 293 26
Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 824 — — 824
Net proceeds from stock issuances and warrants 2
580 11,835 — — — 11,835
Net proceeds from sales of subsidiary shares and partner contributions — 59 — — 5,970 6,029
Partner distributions
— — — — ( 217 ) ( 217 )
Employee equity incentive plans and other 101 771 — — — 771
Share-based compensation — 2,163 — — 271 2,434
Restricted stock unit withholdings ( 17 ) ( 592 ) — 169 — ( 423 )
Balance as of December 27, 2025 4,994 $ 65,185 $ 113 $ 48,983 $ 12,079 $ 126,360
1 We made a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings upon adopting ASU 2023-08 in 2025.
2 Includes $ 110 million of allocated proceeds to warrants from the U.S. Government Agreement we entered into in August 2025.
See accompanying notes.
Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 64
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 : Basis of Presentation
We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in December. Fiscal years 2025, 2024 and 2023 were 52-week fiscal years. Fiscal 2026 is a 52-week fiscal year. Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Intel and our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries, which include entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting interest models. We have eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. The actual results that we experience may differ materially from our estimates.
Note 2 : Accounting Policies
Revenue Recognition
We recognize net product revenue when we satisfy performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products or services to customers. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from product sales. Our products often include a software component, such as firmware, that is highly interdependent and interrelated with the product and is substantially accounted for as a combined performance obligation. In accordance with contract terms, the revenue for combined performance obligations and standalone product sales is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities or delivery to the customer location, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms.
We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products or services. Variable consideration is estimated and reflected as an adjustment to the transaction price. We determine variable consideration, which consists primarily of various sales price concessions, by estimating the most likely amount of net consideration we expect to receive from the customer based on historical analysis of customer purchase volumes. Sales rebates earned by customers are offset against their receivable balances. Rebates earned by customers when they do not have outstanding receivable balances are recorded within other accrued liabilities .
We make payments to our customers through cooperative advertising programs for marketing activities for some of our products. We generally record the payment as a reduction in revenue in the period that the revenue is earned, unless the payment is for a distinct service, which we record as an expense when the marketing activities occur.
Long-Lived Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of assets. We also capitalize interest on borrowings related to eligible capital expenditures. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of qualified assets and depreciated over the estimated useful life.
At least annually, we evaluate the period over which we expect to recover the economic value of our property, plant and equipment, considering factors such as the process technology cadence between node transitions, changes in machinery and equipment technology and re-use of machinery and tools across each generation of process technology. As we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we use assumptions involving the use of management judgments regarding the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter or longer than we had originally estimated, we adjust the rate of depreciation to reflect the assets' revised useful lives.
Assets are categorized and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a business or product line in relation to expectations, significant negative industry or economic trends and significant changes or planned changes in our use and fungibility of the assets. If the carrying value of an asset grouping is not recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the fair value of the asset grouping must be determined. An impairment is recognized if the carrying value of the asset grouping exceeds the determined fair value.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
65
Identified Intangible Assets
We amortize intangible assets, including internal-use software, that are subject to amortization using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. We perform periodic reviews of significant finite-lived identified intangible assets to determine whether facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the determined fair value. These reviews can be affected by various factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our forecasts for specific product lines. Periodically, we also evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. We may adjust the period over which these assets are amortized to reflect the period over which they are expected to contribute to our cash flows.
Goodwill
We perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist. We have five reporting units with allocated goodwill, which generally align to our operating segments. We reevaluate our identified reporting units annually or when triggered, such as upon reorganization of our operating segments or due to business reasons that result in material changes as to how our reporting units are organized and managed. Impairment assessments may be qualitative or quantitative in nature. A quantitative assessment is required if we determine, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value, or if there are material changes to the structure of our reporting units. The reporting unit's carrying value used in an impairment assessment represents the allocation of various assets and liabilities, excluding certain corporate assets and liabilities, such as cash, investments and debt.
Our qualitative assessment considers industry and market considerations, overall financial performance and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit or Intel as a whole. Our quantitative impairment assessment considers both the market approach and the income approach to estimate a reporting unit's fair value. The market approach estimates fair value using financial multiples and transaction prices of comparable companies. The income approach estimates fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis which includes estimates for market segment growth rates, our assumed market segment share, estimated gross margins, operating expenses and discount rates based on a reporting unit's weighted average cost of capital, among others. We test the reasonableness of the inputs and outcomes of our discounted cash flow analysis against available market data. These estimates change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions and other factors and could materially affect the determination of the fair value and potential goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Our quantitative assessment is sensitive to changes in underlying estimates and assumptions, the most sensitive of which is the discount rate.
Inventories
We compute inventory cost on a first-in, first-out basis. Our process and product development life cycle corresponds with substantive engineering milestones. These engineering milestones are regularly and consistently applied in assessing the point at which our activities and associated costs change in nature from R&D to cost of sales, and when cost of sales can be capitalized as inventory.
For a product to be manufactured in high volumes and sold to our customers under our standard warranty, it must meet our rigorous technical quality specifications. We have identified the start of manufacturing volume for sale to customers as the point at which the costs incurred to manufacture our products are included in the valuation of inventory. Prior to the start of manufacturing volume for sale to customers, costs that do not meet the criteria for R&D are included in cost of sales in the period incurred.
The valuation of inventory includes determining which fixed production overhead costs can be included in inventory based on the normal capacity of our manufacturing and assembly and test facilities. We apply our historical loading compared to our total available capacity to determine our expectations of normal capacity level. If the factory loading is below the established normal capacity level, a portion of our fixed production overhead costs would not be included in the cost of inventory; instead, it would be recognized as cost of sales in that period. We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. Excess capacity charges were $ 493 million in 2025, $ 174 million in 2024 and $ 834 million in 2023.
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value, based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation process include a review of our customer base, the stage of the product life cycle, variations in market pricing and an assessment of selling price in relation to product cost. Lower of cost or net realizable value inventory reserves fluctuate as we ramp new process technologies, with costs generally improving over time due to scale and improved yields. Additionally, inventory valuation is impacted by cyclical changes in market conditions and the associated pricing environment.
The valuation of inventory also requires us to estimate obsolete and excess inventory, as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We use a demand forecast to develop our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory valuations and build decisions. For certain new products, we have limited historical data when developing these demand forecasts. We compare the estimate of future demand to work-in-process and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. When our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we write off amounts considered to be excess inventory.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
66
Government Incentives
Government incentives, including cash grants and refundable tax credits, are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the incentive will be received and we will comply with the conditions specified in the agreement or statutory requirements. We record capital-related incentives as a reduction to property, plant and equipment, net within our Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize a reduction to depreciation expense over the useful life of the corresponding acquired asset. We record operating-related incentives as a reduction to expense in the same period and in the same line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the expenditure for which the incentive is intended to compensate.
Equity Issuances
We recognize equity issuances on the settlement date, which is the date on which legal ownership transfers to the investor. We measure equity issuances at fair value on the settlement date determined using observable market prices of our common stock. If shares are issued at a discount to market price, we determine whether the discount represents other rights conveyed in the contract and, if not, record at the transacted amounts.
We may enter into financial instruments providing for the issuance of our common stock at future dates. These financial instruments are evaluated for classification and are included in equity within our Consolidated Balance Sheets based on their terms and conditions if the criteria for equity classification is met.
Direct and incremental costs incurred in connection with the issuances of equity or equity-classified instruments are recorded as a reduction to our capital in excess of par value.
Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share includes the impact of potentially dilutive securities, such as stock options, RSUs, warrants and Escrowed Shares, when the effect of including these securities is not anti-dilutive. The treasury stock method is applied to equity incentive plans and contractual issuances, while the if-converted method is used for instruments with conversion features. Shares are included in basic earnings (loss) per share only when they are no longer contingently issuable with weighted share impacts calculated based upon the date the contingency ends. Diluted earnings (loss) per share is adjusted for changes in fair value of derivative liabilities associated with shares released from escrow during the year.
Fair Value
When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact, as well as assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. Our financial assets are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, except for equity securities measured using the measurement alternative, equity method investments, certain other receivables and grants receivable. We assess fair value hierarchy levels for our issued debt and fixed-income investment portfolio based on the underlying instrument type.
The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are:
Level 1 . Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. We evaluate security-specific market data when determining whether a market is active.
Level 2. Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in less active markets or model-derived valuations. All significant inputs used in our valuations, such as discounted cash flows, are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. We use yield curves, overnight indexed swap curves, currency spot and forward rates and credit ratings as significant inputs in our valuations. Level 2 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices, as well as quoted prices that were adjusted for security-specific restrictions. When we use non-binding market consensus prices, we corroborate them with quoted market prices for similar instruments or compare them to output from internally developed pricing models such as discounted cash flow models.
Level 3 . Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities. We monitor and review the inputs and results of these valuation models to help confirm that the fair value measurements are reasonable and consistent with market experience in similar asset and liability classes. Level 3 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices, non-binding broker quotes and probability-weighted outcomes that we are unable to corroborate with observable market data.
Equity Investments
We regularly invest in equity securities of public and private companies to promote business and strategic objectives. Equity investments are measured and recorded as follows:
Marketable equity investments are equity securities with RDFV that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis with changes in fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recorded through our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
67
Non-marketable equity investments are equity securities without RDFV that are measured and recorded using a measurement alternative that measures the securities at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from qualifying observable price changes. Changes in carrying value of non-marketable equity investments are recorded through our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Equity method investments are equity securities in investees we do not control but over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence. Equity method investments are measured at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus our share of equity method investee income or loss. Our proportionate share of the income or loss from equity method investments is typically recognized on a one-quarter lag in our Consolidated Statements of Operations due to investee reporting cycle timing.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value or the sale of our equity investments are recorded in gains (losses) on equity investments, net . The carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments is adjusted for qualifying observable price changes resulting from the issuance of similar or identical securities in an orderly transaction by the same issuer. Determining whether an observed transaction is similar to a security within our portfolio requires judgment based on the rights and preferences of the securities.
Non-marketable equity investments and equity method investments (collectively referred to as non-marketable equity investments) are also subject to periodic impairment reviews. Our quarterly impairment analysis considers both qualitative and quantitative factors. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative assessments of the fair value of our non-marketable equity investments using both the market and income approaches.
Non-marketable equity investments are tested for impairment using a qualitative model similar to the model used for goodwill and property, plant and equipment. Upon determining that an impairment may exist, the security's fair value is calculated and compared to its carrying value, and an impairment is recognized immediately if the carrying value exceeds the fair value.
Equity method investments are subject to periodic impairment reviews using the other-than-temporary impairment model, which considers the severity and duration of a decline in fair value below carrying value and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery.
Impairments of non-marketable equity investments are recorded in gains (losses) on equity investments, net .
Derivative Financial Instruments
Our primary objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, and, to a lesser extent, equity market risk, commodity price risk and credit risk. We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. We also enter into collateral security arrangements with certain of our counterparties to exchange cash collateral when the net fair value of certain derivative instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. For presentation on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, we do not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. Our derivative financial instruments, including related collateral amounts, are presented at fair value on a gross basis in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are included in other current assets, other long-term assets, other accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities .
Cash flow hedges use foreign currency contracts, such as currency forwards and currency swaps, to hedge exposures for variability in the U.S.-dollar equivalent of non-U.S.-dollar-denominated cash flows associated with our forecasted operating and capital purchases spending.
The after-tax gains or losses from the effective portion of a cash flow hedge are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and in the same line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the impact of the hedge transaction. For foreign currency contracts hedging our capital purchases, forward points are excluded from the hedge effectiveness assessment, and are recognized in earnings in the same income statement line item used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item. If the cash flow hedge transactions become improbable, the corresponding amounts deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) would be immediately reclassified to interest and other, net . Cash flows associated with these derivatives are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same section as the underlying item.
Fair value hedges use interest rate contracts, such as interest rate swaps, to hedge against changes in the fair value of certain of our fixed-rate indebtedness attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The gains or losses on these hedges, as well as the offsetting losses or gains related to the changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in earnings in the current period, primarily in interest and other, net . Cash flows associated with these derivatives are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same section as the underlying item.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
68
Non-designated hedges use foreign currency contracts to economically hedge the functional currency equivalent cash flows of recognized monetary assets and liabilities, and non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt investment instruments that we reference in this paragraph and the Debt Investments section below as hedged investments. We also use interest rate contracts to economically hedge interest rate risk related to our U.S.-dollar-denominated fixed-rate debt investments that we also reference as hedged investments. Lastly, certain of our contractual arrangements contain terms that meet the definition of a derivative and require bifurcation from the host contract. The change in fair value of these non-designated derivatives is recorded through earnings in the line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations to which the derivatives most closely relate, primarily in interest and other, net and changes in the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities associated with the hedged risk are generally offset by the changes in the fair value of the related derivatives.
Debt Investments
Debt investments include investments in corporate debt, government debt and financial institution instruments. Unhedged debt investments with original maturities of approximately three months or less from the date of purchase are classified within cash and cash equivalents . Unhedged debt investments with original maturities at the date of purchase greater than approximately three months and all economically hedged debt investments are classified as short-term investments , as they represent the investment of cash available for current operations.
For certain of our marketable debt investments, we economically hedge market risks at inception with a related derivative instrument, or the marketable debt investment itself is used to economically hedge currency exchange rate risk from remeasurement. These hedged investments are reported at fair value. Gains or losses on these investments arising from changes in fair value due to interest rate and currency market fluctuations and credit market volatility, largely offset by losses or gains on the related derivative instruments and balance sheet remeasurement, are recorded in interest and other, net . Our remaining unhedged marketable debt investments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) . We determine the cost of the investment sold at the individual security level and record the interest income and realized gains or losses on the sale of these investments in interest and other, net .
Unhedged debt investments are subject to periodic impairment reviews. For investments in an unrealized loss position, we determine whether a credit loss exists by considering information about the collectability of the instrument, current market conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions. We recognize an allowance for credit losses, up to the amount of the unrealized loss when appropriate, and write down the amortized cost basis of the investment if it is more likely than not we will be required or we intend to sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Allowances for credit losses and write-downs are recognized in interest and other, net and unrealized losses not related to credit losses are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) .
Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments in debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, reverse repurchase agreements and trade and other receivables. We generally place investments with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty based on our analysis of that counterparty's relative credit standing. As required per our investment policy, substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are in investment-grade instruments. Credit-rating criteria for derivative instruments are similar to those for other investments.
We enter into master netting arrangements to mitigate credit risk in derivative transactions by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. Due to master netting arrangements, the amounts subject to credit risk related to derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparty's obligations exceed our obligations with that counterparty. As of December 27, 2025 and December 28, 2024, our total credit exposure to any single counterparty, excluding money market funds invested in U.S. treasury and U.S. agency securities and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by treasury and agency securities, did not exceed $ 5.2 billion and $ 1.4 billion, respectively. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements with certain of our derivative counterparties and obtain and secure collateral from counterparties against obligations, including securities lending transactions when we deem it appropriate. Cash collateral exchanged under our collateral security arrangements is included in other current assets , other long-term assets , other accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities . For reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by other securities, we do not record the collateral as an asset or a liability unless the collateral is repledged.
A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to OEMs and ODMs. We also have accounts receivable derived from sales to industrial and communications equipment manufacturers in the computing and communications industries. We believe the net accounts receivable balances from our three largest customers ( 47 % as of December 27, 2025 and December 28, 2024) do not represent a significant credit risk, based on cash flow forecasts, balance sheet analysis and past collection experience.
We have adopted credit policies and standards intended to accommodate industry growth and inherent risk. We believe credit risks are moderated by the financial stability of our major customers. We assess credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis. From this analysis, we establish shipping and credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or more credit support protection devices, such as obtaining a parent guarantee, standby letter of credit or credit insurance.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
69
Variable Interest Entities
We have economic interests in entities that are VIEs. If we conclude we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE, we are required to consolidate the entity in our financial statements. To determine if we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate whether we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our evaluation includes identification of significant activities and an assessment of our ability to direct those activities based on governance provisions and arrangements to provide services to the VIE. Periodically, we assess whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity affect our determination of whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary.
Non-Controlling Interests
Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of majority-owned subsidiaries consolidated under the variable interest and voting interest models. Non-controlling interests represent the portion of equity not attributable to Intel and are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax and transaction costs, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The classification of non-controlling interests as a component of equity is determined based on the specific rights and obligations associated with the instruments held by minority interest holders. Net income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss) for majority-owned subsidiaries are attributed to Intel and to non-controlling interest holders on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) based on respective ownership percentages. We account for changes in ownership of our majority-owned subsidiaries as equity transactions when we retain a controlling financial interest.
Business Combinations
We allocate the purchase price paid for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions based on their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. This allocation involves a number of assumptions, estimates, and judgments in determining the fair value of the following:
inventory; property, plant and equipment; pre-existing liabilities or legal claims; and contingent consideration; each as may be applicable;
intangible assets, including the valuation methodology, estimations of future cash flows, discount rates, market segment growth rates and our assumed market segment share, as well as the estimated useful life of intangible assets;
deferred tax assets and liabilities, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances, which are initially estimated as of the acquisition date; and
goodwill as measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Our assumptions and estimates are based upon comparable market data and information obtained from our management and the management of the acquired companies. These assumptions and estimates are used to value assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and to allocate goodwill to the reporting units of the business that are expected to benefit from the business combination. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we may recognize adjustments to the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and related goodwill.
Employee Equity Incentive Plans
We grant service-based RSUs, stock options and performance-based RSUs, called PSUs, which are subject to a combination of service, performance and/or market conditions. We estimate the fair value of RSUs and PSUs with a service or performance condition using the value of our common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of any dividends expected to be paid on our shares of common stock prior to vesting. The fair value of stock option awards with only service and/or performance conditions is estimated on the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of PSUs with a market condition is estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model as of the date of grant.
For service-based stock awards, compensation expense is recognized over the service period of the award using the straight-line method. For PSUs with performance or market conditions, compensation expense is recognized ratably for each vesting tranche from the service inception date to the end of the requisite service period. For PSUs that include a performance condition, expense is recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance conditions. For PSUs that contain only a market condition, expense is recognized regardless of whether the market condition is ultimately satisfied. Share-based compensation expense is recognized net of forfeitures.
Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2006 ESPP), eligible employees may purchase common stock at 85% of the fair market value on the last trading day of each six-month offering period. The 15% discount is included in the estimate of fair value as of the offering period start date and recognized as compensation expense over the offering period.
Upon exercise, cancellation, forfeiture or expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or forfeiture of other awards, we eliminate deferred tax assets for awards with multiple vesting dates for each vesting period on a first-in, first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
70
For the majority of awards granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. The obligation to pay the relevant taxing authority is contingent upon continued employment. In addition, the amount of the obligation is unknown, as it is based in part on the market price of our common stock when the awards vest.
Income Taxes
We compute the provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled.
We assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. Recovery of a portion of our deferred tax assets is affected by management's plans with respect to holding or disposing of certain investments; therefore, such changes could also affect our future provision for taxes.
We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if (based on the technical merits of the position) it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on examination by the tax authority. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for (benefit from) taxes on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
We recognize the tax impact of including certain foreign earnings in U.S. taxable income as a period cost. We have recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we do not plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences. Remittances of non-U.S. earnings are based on estimates and judgments of projected cash flow needs, as well as the working capital and investment requirements of our non-U.S. and U.S. operations. Material changes in our estimates of cash, working capital and investment needs in various jurisdictions could require repatriation of indefinitely reinvested non-U.S. earnings, which could be subject to applicable non-U.S. income and withholding taxes.
Leases
Leases consist of real property and machinery and equipment. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options. For leases for supplier capacity, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. For all other leases, we account for the lease and non-lease components separately and do not include the non-lease components in our leased assets and corresponding liabilities. Payments on leases may be fixed or variable, and variable lease payments are based on output of the underlying leased assets.
Loss Contingencies
We are subject to loss contingencies, including various legal and regulatory proceedings, asserted and potential claims, liabilities related to repair or replacement of parts in connection with product defects, as well as product warranties and potential asset impairments that arise in the ordinary course of business and are subject to change, including due to sudden or rapid developments in proceedings or claims. An estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge to income if it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate developments that could affect prior disclosures or previously accrued liabilities, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. If one or more of these matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's estimates of losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected .
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In November 2024, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2024-03, "Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income—Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses." This ASU is intended to improve transparency by requiring entities to disclose, in the notes to the financial statements, a disaggregation of certain expense categories that are included within the line items presented on the face of the income statement. The standard is effective for our annual reporting period beginning in 2027 and for interim reporting periods beginning in 2028, with early adoption permitted. The standard may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the timing and method of adoption and assessing the impact of this ASU on the preparation of our financial statement disclosures.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
71
In September 2025, the FASB issued ASU 2025-07, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) and Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Derivatives Scope Refinements and Scope Clarification for Share-Based Non-cash Consideration from a Customer in a Revenue Contract." This update excludes from derivative accounting non exchange-traded contracts with an underlying based on operations or activities specific to one of the parties to the contract. Additionally, this update clarifies the application of Topic 606 to a contract with share-based non-cash consideration from a customer for the transfer of goods or services. The standard is effective for our annual and interim reporting periods beginning in 2027, with early adoption permitted. The standard may be applied using a prospective or modified retrospective transition approach. We are currently evaluating the timing and method of adoption and assessing the impact of this ASU on our financial statements.
In December 2025, the FASB issued ASU 2025-10, "Government Grants (Topic 832): Accounting for Government Grants Received by Business Entities." This update establishes authoritative guidance on the accounting for government grants received by business entities. The standard is effective for our annual and interim reporting periods beginning in 2029, with early adoption permitted. The standard may be applied using a modified prospective, modified retrospective or full retrospective transition approach. We are currently evaluating the timing and method of adoption and assessing the impact of this ASU on our financial statements.
Note 3 : Operating Segments
In the first quarter of 2025, we made an organizational change to integrate our NEX business into CCG and DCAI and modified our segment reporting to align to this and certain other business reorganizations. All prior period segment data have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the way our CODM internally receives information and manages and monitors our operating segment performance starting in fiscal year 2025. Additionally, effective September 12, 2025, we completed the divestiture of 51 % of Altera. As of that date, Altera's results of operations are no longer included in our consolidated or segment results. Altera's financial results were included within our "all other" category for all periods presented through September 11, 2025. There are no changes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for any prior periods resulting from our organizational change in the first quarter of 2025 or the Altera transaction, which is further described below.
We organize our business as follows:
Intel Products:
Client Computing Group (CCG)
Data Center and AI (DCAI)
Intel Foundry
All Other:
Mobileye
Other
CCG, DCAI and Intel Foundry qualify as reportable operating segments. When we enter into federal contracts, they are aligned to the sponsoring operating segment.
The accounting policies applied to our segments follow those applied to Intel as a whole. A summary of the basis for which we report our operating segment revenues and operating margin is as follows:
Intel Products: CCG and DCAI
Segment revenue: consists of revenues from external customers. Our Intel Products operating segments represent most of Intel consolidated revenue and are derived from our principal products that incorporate various components and technologies, including a microprocessor and chipset, a stand-alone SoC, or a multichip package, which are based on Intel architecture.
Segment expenses: consists of intersegment charges for product manufacturing and related services from Intel Foundry, external foundry and other manufacturing expenses, product development costs, allocated expenses as described below and direct operating expenses.
Intel Foundry
Segment revenue : consists substantially of intersegment product and services revenue for wafer fabrication, substrates and other related products and services sold to Intel Products and certain other Intel internal businesses. We recognize intersegment revenue based on the completion of performance obligations. Product revenue is recognized upon transfer of ownership, which is generally at the completion of wafer sorting. Backend service revenue is recognized upon the completion of assembly and test milestones, which approximates the recognition of revenue over the service period. Intersegment sales are recorded at prices that are intended to approximate market pricing. Intel Foundry also includes certain third-party foundry and assembly and test revenues from external customers that totaled $ 307 million in 2025, $ 159 million in 2024 and $ 547 million in 2023.
Segment expenses: consists of direct expenses for technology development, product manufacturing and services provided by Intel Foundry to internal and external customers, allocated expenses as described below and direct operating expenses. Direct expenses for product manufacturing include excess capacity charges, if any.
Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
72
All Other
Our "all other" category includes the results of operations from other non-reportable segments, including our Mobileye business, our IMS business, start-up businesses that support our initiatives and historical results of operations from divested businesses, including Altera. Effective September 12, 2025, Altera, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary, was deconsolidated from our Consolidated Financial Statements following the closing of the sale of 51 % of Altera's issued and outstanding common stock. Altera's financial results of operations were included in our "all other" category through September 11, 2025. As of September 12, 2025, our retained interest in Altera is accounted for as an equity method investment. See "Note 10: Acquisitions and Divestitures" within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The financial results of our "all other" category include intersegment product and services revenue and intersegment expenses primarily between Altera and our Intel Foundry segment during the periods in which we consolidated Altera.
We allocate operating expenses from our sales and marketing group to the Intel Products operating segments and allocate substantially all our operating expenses from our general and administration groups to our reportable operating segments.
We estimate that the substantial majority of our consolidated depreciation expense was incurred by Intel Foundry in 2025, 2024 and 2023. Intel Foundry depreciation expense is substantially included in overhead cost pools and then combined with other costs, and subsequently absorbed into inventory as each product passes through the manufacturing process and is sold to Intel Products or other customers. As a result, it is impracticable to determine the total depreciation expense included as a component of each Intel Products operating segment's operating income (loss).
We do not allocate the following corporate operating expenses to our operating segments:
restructuring and other charges;
share-based compensation; and
certain acquisition-related costs, including amortization and any impairment of acquisition-related intangibles and goodwill.
We do not allocate the following non-operating items to our operating segments:
gains and losses from equity investments;
interest and other, net; and
income taxes.
Our CEO is our CODM. The CODM uses segment revenue and segment operating income (loss) to evaluate each segment's performance and allocate resources. These financial measures are utilized during our budgeting and forecasting process to assess profitability and enable decision making regarding strategic initiatives, capital investments and personnel across all operating segments. Segment operating results regularly reviewed by our CODM also include total cost of sales and operating expenses directly 