d/or profit sharing
obligations. See Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements—Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
Third Party Agreements
AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, product distribution, analytical services and manufacturing of
certain products. AbbVie procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source.
In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and
development services, fill, finish and packaging services, transportation and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie
does not believe that these manufacturing-related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any
individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its
manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie seeks to maintain sufficient inventory of product to
minimize the impact of any supply disruption.
AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other
Arrangements—Other Licensing & Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers
around the world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by
unaffiliated third party suppliers. AbbVie has robust business continuity and supplier monitoring programs.
Research and Development Activities
AbbVie makes a significant investment in research and development and has numerous compounds (and complementary devices) in
clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new
compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists,
physicians and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team. AbbVie also partners with third parties, such as biotechnology
companies, other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to identify and prioritize promising new treatments that complement
and enhance AbbVie’s existing portfolio. AbbVie also supplements its research and development efforts with acquisitions.
The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that
has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into
clinical development which generally includes the following phases:
• Phase 1— involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and
doses for later phases.
• Phase 2— tests different doses of the drug in a disease state in order to assess efficacy.
• Phase 3— tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to
further demonstrate efficacy and safety in order to meet regulatory requirements to enable global approval.
Preclinical data and clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit an NDA, a
Biological License Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United
States. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic
regions.
The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer.
The research and development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when,
or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication.
abbvieimage3.gif
2025 Form 10-K | 8
In addition to the development of new products, delivery devices and new formulations, research and development projects also may
include Phase 4 trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect
additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug.
Regulation—Discovery and Clinical Development
United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial
resources and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before
commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are
conducted in sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are
submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews
an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with
current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP).
Compliance with regulatory requirements is assured through periodic, announced or unannounced inspections by the FDA and other
regulatory authorities, and these inspections associated with clinical development may include the sponsor, investigator sites, laboratories,
hospitals and manufacturing facilities of AbbVie's subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with applicable
regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, including rejection of an NDA or BLA.
Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an
approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning
advertising and promotional materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP
after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be submitted and approved by the FDA prior
to implementation. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive
procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and
surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials,
patient registries, observational data or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations,
and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future. Further, the FDA continues to regulate product labeling and
prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses along with other labeling restrictions.
Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States for approval and marketing
of pharmaceutical products. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from applicable supervising regulatory
authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in target markets. The approval requirements and process for
each country can vary and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United
States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or decentralized
procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and
provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single
marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency. After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a
recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The
decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not
subject to the centralized procedure.
In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Japan-
specific trials and/or bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients are usually required.
After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies
the application.
Similarly, applications for a new product in China are submitted to the Center for Drug Evaluation of the National Medical Products
Administration for technical review and approval of a product for marketing in China. Clinical data in Chinese subjects are usually required to
support approval in China, requiring the inclusion of China in global pivotal studies, or a separate China/Asian clinical trial.
The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally
require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will
begin or complete its regulatory review process. Similar to the requirements in Japan and
Image3.gif
9 | 2025 Form 10-K
China, certain countries (notably South Korea, Taiwan, India and Russia) also generally require that clinical studies that include data from
patients in those countries be conducted in order to support local regulatory approval.
The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory
obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing
authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may
be required (such as Risk Management Plans).
Regulation—Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing
The manufacturing, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government
regulation. Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state and local agencies, both in the United States and other
countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations,
product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution,
quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade
regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent
corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act,
which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguard