ctivities:
Purchases of property and equipment included in accrued
liabilities and accounts payable $ 7,435 $ 10,326 $ 15,090
See accompanying notes.
52.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc.
Alphabet Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Nature of Operations
Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August
2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. ("Alphabet") became the
successor issuer to Google.
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide
enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure, platform services, and applications; and sales of other products and
services, such as fees received for subscription-based products, apps and in-app purchases, and devices.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under
the variable interest and voting models. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ materially from these estimates due to uncertainties. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our
estimates, including those related to the allowance for credit losses; contingent liabilities; fair values of financial
instruments and goodwill; income taxes; inventory; and useful lives of property and equipment, among others. We base
our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, and the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
Revenue Recognition
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, and the
collectibility of an amount that we expect in exchange for those goods or services is probable. Sales and other similar
taxes are excluded from revenues.
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues consist of revenues from:
• Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who
use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc. and other Google owned and operated
properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
• YouTube properties; and
• Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense,
and Google Ad Manager.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager, Google Display &
Video 360, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising. We recognize revenues for performance
advertising when a user engages with the advertisement. For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is
displayed, or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a
gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on
Google Network properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and
amounts paid to Google Network partners are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the
advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the
advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to
our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues consist of revenues from:
53.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc.
• consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube
Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One, which offers access to our most capable
Gemini models;
• platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play sales of apps and in-app purchases;
• devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and
• other products and services.
Subscription revenues are recognized ratably over the period of the subscription, primarily monthly. We report
revenues from Google Play sales of apps and in-app purchases on a net basis because our performance obligation is to
facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users for which we earn a service fee.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues consist of revenues from:
• Google Cloud Platform primarily generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform,
and other services. These services provide access to solutions such as AI offerings including our enterprise AI
infrastructure, Vertex AI platform, and Gemini Enterprise; cybersecurity offerings; and data and analytics solutions;
• Google Workspace includes subscriptions for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises,
such as Gmail, Docs, Calendar, Drive, and Meet, with integrated features like Gemini for Google Workspace; and
• other enterprise services.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract
terms longer than a year. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis are recognized when the
customer utilizes the services, based on the quantity of services consumed using the relative standalone selling price
allocation. Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract
term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations
Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate
revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine
standalone selling prices based on observable prices of our products and services sold or priced separately in comparable
circumstances to similar customers.
Customer Incentives and Credits
Certain customers receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We
estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues. We believe
that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration related to customer incentives and
credits.
Sales Commissions
We expense sales commissions when incurred when the period of the expected benefit is one year or less. We
recognize an asset for certain sales commissions and amortize if the expected benefit period is greater than one year.
These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.
• TAC includes:
◦ amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and other ad-
supported services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original
equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and
◦ amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
• Other cost of revenues includes:
54.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc.
◦ content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other
content for distribution, primarily related to YouTube (we pay fees to these content providers based on
revenues generated, subscriber counts, or a flat fee);
◦ depreciation expense, primarily related to our technical infrastructure;
◦ employee compensation expenses related to our technical infrastructure and other operations such as
content review and customer and product support;
◦ inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell; and
◦ other technical infrastructure operations costs, including energy, equipment, and network capacity costs.
Software Development Costs
We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component
of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological
feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products. As a result, development costs that meet the
criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented.
Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and
cloud-based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software
applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the
software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were
not material for the periods presented.
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation (SBC) primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity
classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense
using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur. RSUs
are awarded dividend equivalents, which are subject to the same vesting conditions as the underlying award, and settled
in Class C shares.
For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory income tax withholding to be paid
by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs vested, and the income
tax withholding is recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital.
Additionally, SBC includes other stock-based awards, such as performance stock units (PSUs) that include market
conditions and awards that may be settled in cash or the stock of certain Other Bet companies. PSUs and certain awards
granted by Other Bet companies are equity classified and expense is recognized over the requisite service period. Certain
awards granted by Other Bet companies are liability classified and remeasured at fair value through settlement. The fair
value of awards granted by Other Bet companies is based on the equity valuation of the respective Other Bet company.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses
We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended
December 31, 2023, 2024, and 2025, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $8.7 billion, $8.7
billion, and $9.9 billion, respectively.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured
and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the
market used to measure fair value:
Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 - Inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for
identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all
significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable,
these models project futur